#### Mental Health

" ...But for most of my life up to that point I had suffered from unresolved major childhood trauma and instability. This developed a major conflict within myself of feeling angry at how I was being abused [as a child] while also believing that it was my fault, each iteration feeding hate towards others and hate towards myself, growing into a powerfully negative corrosive cycle within me. It made me hide my feelings and shut other people out, and kept me from being vulnerable and intimately connected with others.

I questioned my worth regularly, and went so far as to think that I was just born evil, or that I was the devil. And when it came to relationships, I found myself repeating many of the same patterns of abuse and toxicity that pushed even the people who loved me away. It made it impossible for me to accept that the woman who loved me could actually love me because every time she said she was proud of me I would recoil and think "she doesn't even know the real me". The thing is, she saw the me that showed up *despite* the wound, and that's who she fell in love with. She saw the me that I couldn't see, and that caused a dramatic dissonance between us and over time that dissonance grew into a rift. That is the reality-warping effect of the Trauma Wound. 

Those wounds continued to manifest in my life as repeated cycles of chaos, instability, and broken relationships. Over my adult life I continued to develop a massive dis-trust of people and 'the system'. I was hyper critical, judgemental and full of hate because of that, even though the real me was hyper empathetic, compassionate, and nurturing. My trauma cycle pushed me so far into isolation that I believed my only worth or value was in creating some sort of magical solution that would save the world, and I ground my mind into delusion trying to do so. 

After transitioning into tech, those past traumas and mental illnesses surfaced and demanded to be dealt with. At the time I had almost no awareness of myself or of these things. I knew I was angry, and I sometimes spoke about it, but I never truly acknowledged the hurt. Without treatment to resolve these issues they just festered as an invisible wound, continually infecting and corrupting the other areas of my life. However I recognized that, while I might be justified in the reasons for my distrust, I was also a big part of the problem. I noticed how my own actions had hurt myself and others, and how I had broken the trust and faith of others. I realized how important trust is in everything we do, and that it's the basis of healthy humanity. I decided to stand up for what I believed in, to break that cycle, and change. I took that giant Quantum Leap of Faith and sought help.

Since then I have come to know myself and my history in much greater detail. I've learned how my wound created an independence and mistrust of people that manifested as strong defensive energy around me that was meant to keep people away. As a co-worker, this made it hard to approach me, to work with me, to ask me for status or results, to hold me accountable, to plan or collaborate with. 

And it made it difficult for _me_ to ask for help, to hear critical feedback, to accept suggestions, seek mentorship, or to participate and engage with others. Because I was entrenched and blind to my defensiveness so rightfully earned that I blamed others for not doing enough for me rather than thinking about what I could have been doing differently. I learned that things like this shut people out and reinforced the cycles of mistrust and isolation.

I experienced that many people do not know how to engage with a coworker who is experiencing a mental crisis. Many are afraid to acknowledge it or ask about it out of fear of being insensitive, or because they themselves are uncomfortable with the energy. Some people are worried about how the team should talk about mental illness and how it might affect the teams dynamic. But I would argue that the real team dynamic is emergent from the individual relationships that make up that team. 

In my experience I felt completely alone and avoided, which was a re-living of the exact traumas I was suffering from. I fought hard in my job to keep going and keep showing up, even though I was horribly under-qualified and cognitively impaired. The atmosphere made me feel unwelcome and afraid to ask others for help, and that was something I wasn't able to overcome by myself." 